docs/data_collection/index.md, before:

# Data format / Export data 
If you want to export data about how your flag are used, you can use the **`DataExporter`**.  
It collects all the variations events and can save these events on several locations:

- [File](file.md) *- create local files with the variation usages.*
- [Log](log.md) *- use your logger to write the variation usages.*
- [S3](s3.md) *- export your variation usages to S3.*
- [Webhook](webhook.md) *- export your variation usages by calling a webhook.*

## Data format
Currently, we are supporting only feature events.  
It represents individual flag evaluations and are considered "full fidelity" events.

### Example

```json linenums="1"
{
    "kind": "feature",
    "contextKind": "anonymousUser",
    "userKey": "ABCD",
    "creationDate": 1618228297,
    "key": "test-flag",
    "variation": "Default",
    "value": false,
    "default": false
}
```
### Configuration fields

| Field  | Description  |
|---|---|
|**`kind`** | The kind for a feature event is feature. A feature event will only be generated if the trackEvents attribute of the flag is set to true.  |
|**`contextKind`** | The kind of context which generated an event. This will only be "**anonymousUser**" for events generated on behalf of an anonymous user or the reserved word "**user**" for events generated on behalf of a non-anonymous user |
|**`userKey`** | The key of the user object used in a feature flag evaluation. |
|**`creationDate`** | When the feature flag was requested at Unix epoch time in milliseconds. |
|**`key`** | The key of the feature flag requested. |
|**`variation`** | The variation of the flag requested. Available values are:<br>**True**: if the flag was evaluated to True <br>**False**: if the flag was evaluated to False<br>**Dafault**: if the flag was evaluated to Default<br>**SdkDefault**: if something wrong happened and the SDK default value was used. |
|**`value`** | The value of the feature flag returned by feature flag evaluation. |
|**`default`** | (Optional) This value is set to true if feature flag evaluation failed, in which case the value returned was the default value passed to variation. |

Events are collected and send in bulk to avoid spamming your exporter *(see details in [how to configure data export](#how-to-configure-data-export)*)

## How to configure data export?
In your `ffclient.Config` add the `DataExporter` field and configure your export location.

To avoid spamming your location everytime you have a variation called, `go-feature-flag` is storing in memory all the events and send them in bulk to the exporter.  
You can decide the threshold on when to send the data with the properties `FlushInterval` and `MaxEventInMemory`. The first threshold hit will export the data.

If there are some flags you don't want to export, you can use `trackEvents` fields on these specific flags to disable the data export *(see [flag file format](../flag_format.md))*.

### Example
```go  linenums="1"
ffclient.Config{ 
    // ...
   DataExporter: ffclient.DataExporter{
        FlushInterval:   10 * time.Second,
        MaxEventInMemory: 1000,
        Exporter: &ffexporter.File{
            OutputDir: "/output-data/",
        },
    },
    // ...
}
```

### Configuration fields

| Field  |   |  Description |
|---|---|---|
|`Exporter`   |The configuration of the exporter you want to use. All the exporters are available in the `ffexporter` package.|
|`FlushInterval`   | *(optional)*<br>Time to wait before exporting the data.<br>**Default: 60 seconds**.  |
|`MaxEventInMemory`   | *(optional)*<br>If `MaxEventInMemory` is reach before the `FlushInterval` a intermediary export will be done<br>**Default: 100000**.|


## Don't track a flag
By default, all flags are trackable, and their data are exported.

If you want to exclude a specific flag from the data export, you can set the property `trackEvents` to `false` on your flag, and you will have no export for it.

=== "YAML"

    ``` yaml linenums="1" hl_lines="6"
    test-flag:
      percentage: 50
      true: "B"
      false: "A"
      default: "Default"
      trackEvents: false
    ```

=== "JSON"

    ``` json linenums="1"  hl_lines="7"
    {
      "test-flag": {
        "percentage": 50,
        "true": "B",
        "false": "A",
        "default": "Default",
        "trackEvents": false
      }
    }
    ```

=== "TOML"

    ``` toml linenums="1" hl_lines="6"
    [test-flag]
    percentage = 50.0
    true = "B"
    false = "A"
    default = "Default"
    trackEvents = false
    ```

Commit message:

(doc) How to extend go-feature-flag (#170)

docs/data_collection/index.md, after:

# Data format / Export data 
If you want to export data about how your flag are used, you can use the **`DataExporter`**.  
It collects all the variations events and can save these events on several locations:

- [File](file.md) *- create local files with the variation usages.*
- [Log](log.md) *- use your logger to write the variation usages.*
- [S3](s3.md) *- export your variation usages to S3.*
- [Webhook](webhook.md) *- export your variation usages by calling a webhook.*

If the existing exporter does not work with your system you can extend the system and use a [custom exporter](custom.md).
## Data format
Currently, we are supporting only feature events.  
It represents individual flag evaluations and are considered "full fidelity" events.

### Example

```json linenums="1"
{
    "kind": "feature",
    "contextKind": "anonymousUser",
    "userKey": "ABCD",
    "creationDate": 1618228297,
    "key": "test-flag",
    "variation": "Default",
    "value": false,
    "default": false
}
```
### Configuration fields

| Field  | Description  |
|---|---|
|**`kind`** | The kind for a feature event is feature. A feature event will only be generated if the trackEvents attribute of the flag is set to true.  |
|**`contextKind`** | The kind of context which generated an event. This will only be "**anonymousUser**" for events generated on behalf of an anonymous user or the reserved word "**user**" for events generated on behalf of a non-anonymous user |
|**`userKey`** | The key of the user object used in a feature flag evaluation. |
|**`creationDate`** | When the feature flag was requested at Unix epoch time in milliseconds. |
|**`key`** | The key of the feature flag requested. |
|**`variation`** | The variation of the flag requested. Available values are:<br>**True**: if the flag was evaluated to True <br>**False**: if the flag was evaluated to False<br>**Dafault**: if the flag was evaluated to Default<br>**SdkDefault**: if something wrong happened and the SDK default value was used. |
|**`value`** | The value of the feature flag returned by feature flag evaluation. |
|**`default`** | (Optional) This value is set to true if feature flag evaluation failed, in which case the value returned was the default value passed to variation. |

Events are collected and send in bulk to avoid spamming your exporter *(see details in [how to configure data export](#how-to-configure-data-export)*)

## How to configure data export?
In your `ffclient.Config` add the `DataExporter` field and configure your export location.

To avoid spamming your location everytime you have a variation called, `go-feature-flag` is storing in memory all the events and send them in bulk to the exporter.  
You can decide the threshold on when to send the data with the properties `FlushInterval` and `MaxEventInMemory`. The first threshold hit will export the data.

If there are some flags you don't want to export, you can use `trackEvents` fields on these specific flags to disable the data export *(see [flag file format](../flag_format.md))*.

### Example
```go  linenums="1"
ffclient.Config{ 
    // ...
   DataExporter: ffclient.DataExporter{
        FlushInterval:   10 * time.Second,
        MaxEventInMemory: 1000,
        Exporter: &ffexporter.File{
            OutputDir: "/output-data/",
        },
    },
    // ...
}
```

### Configuration fields

| Field  |   |  Description |
|---|---|---|
|`Exporter`   |The configuration of the exporter you want to use. All the exporters are available in the `ffexporter` package.|
|`FlushInterval`   | *(optional)*<br>Time to wait before exporting the data.<br>**Default: 60 seconds**.  |
|`MaxEventInMemory`   | *(optional)*<br>If `MaxEventInMemory` is reach before the `FlushInterval` a intermediary export will be done<br>**Default: 100000**.|


## Don't track a flag
By default, all flags are trackable, and their data are exported.

If you want to exclude a specific flag from the data export, you can set the property `trackEvents` to `false` on your flag, and you will have no export for it.

=== "YAML"

    ``` yaml linenums="1" hl_lines="6"
    test-flag:
      percentage: 50
      true: "B"
      false: "A"
      default: "Default"
      trackEvents: false
    ```

=== "JSON"

    ``` json linenums="1"  hl_lines="7"
    {
      "test-flag": {
        "percentage": 50,
        "true": "B",
        "false": "A",
        "default": "Default",
        "trackEvents": false
      }
    }
    ```

=== "TOML"

    ``` toml linenums="1" hl_lines="6"
    [test-flag]
    percentage = 50.0
    true = "B"
    false = "A"
    default = "Default"
    trackEvents = false
    ```
